.TH TSCPROC "6" "2017-11-19" "The Secret Chronicles of Dr. M." "Games"
.SH NAME
tscproc \- XML metadata processor for The Secret Chronicles of Dr. M.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tscproc \fIMODE\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fItscproc\fR is a helper programme that can generate and process the
XML metadata files that contain information about tilesets used by
TSC. Its primary purpose is to free the artist from the laborous work of
creating the collision rectangle information in the XML metadata
manually. This is achieved by allowing to draw the collision
rectangles of each tileset directly within the graphics programme and
exporting them into a separate PNG file of the same dimensions as the
original tileset. The artist can then execute \fItscproc\fR, passing
it the path to the PNG file containing the collision rectangles, a
dimensional specification that tells the programme how many rows and
columns are there in the tileset, and an output filename.
.PP
\fBWarning:\fR Tilesets (and hence the collision rectangle helper PNG
files) need to have dimensions that are powers of 2, otherwise
\fItscproc\fR is going to become confused and produce garbage output.
.PP
\fItscproc\fR operates in one of the modes listed below
\fIMODES\fR. Currently, there are only two, either generating a
metadata XML file for a tileset from a collision rectangle file, or
generating a collision rectangle PNG file from a tileset and a
pre-existing XML metadata file. It is required to specify at least one
"mode" parameter and failure to do so will cause the programme to exit
with an error message.

.SH MODES
.TP
\fB\-M\fR
Generate tileset XML metadata.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR
Generate a collision rectangle PNG from a tileset and a corresponding
metadata file.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Each of the options below that takes a \fIFILE\fR argument can also be
given the literal string \fB\-\fR (a minus sign) for reading from
standard input or writing to standard output depending on the mode of
operation. Ommission of any option that takes a \fIFILE\fR argument
has the same effect.
.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILE\fR
Specifies the collision box PNG file. This file needs to have the
exact same dimensions as the original tileset PNG file.
.TP
\fB\-d \fIROWS\fB:\fICOLS\fR
Gives the number of tile rows and columns (not pixels!) the tileset PNG
has. \fItscproc\fR uses this information to calculate the size of one
tile in the tileset. If this value is specified incorrectly, the
generated collision rectangle information will not fit to the visual
appearance of the tileset. This option can only be used in \fB\-M\fR
mode.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
This option makes \fItscproc\fR print a short help message.
.TP
\fB\-t \fIFILE\fR
Specifies the tileset PNG file. This option can only be used in
\fB\-P\fR mode.
.TP
\fB-x \fIFILE\fR
Specifies the metadata XML file.

.SH BUGS
.PP
It is currently not possible to read from or write to files that are
literally named \fB\-\fR (a minus sign). Trying to do so instructs
\fItscproc\fR to interact with the standard input or output stream
depending on the mode of operation.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
You first need to create a tileset as usual. For the sake of this
example, it is assumed that there's a tileset in PNG file format named
\fIgreen.png\fR that has a width of 768 pixels and a height of 1280
pixels. This tileset contains 5 rows and 3 columns, i.e. each tile has
the dimensions 256✕256px.
.PP
The first step is to open the tileset in your preferred graphics
editor, e.g. using the GIMP (see
.BR gimp (1)
). Add a new layer above the tileset and draw the collision rectangles
for all your tiles using some semi-transparent colour of your
choice. Once done with that, hide the tileset layer so that only the
collision rectangle layer remains and export that one to a separate
PNG file. That file, referred to as \fBcolrects.png\fR below, is the
collision rectangle PNG file.
.PP
To generate the metadata XML file that
.BR tsc (1)
can understand, execute \fItscproc\fR:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ \fBtscproc -M -c colrects.png -x meta.xml -d 5:3\fR
.EE
.RE
.PP
The \fB-M\fR option requests metadata generation mode, with \fB-c\fR
you pass the collision rectangle PNG file, \fB-x\fR gives the output
file for the XML, and \fB-d\fR specifies the number of rows and
columns in the tileset.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
tsc(1)
.PP
Website: <https://secretchronicles.org>
